TF XLA generation blog post (#420)
huggingface/blog: tf-xla-generate.md

generated = model.generate(**input_tokens, num_beams=2)
print("Beam Search output:", tokenizer.decode(generated[0]))
# > Beam Search output: TensorFlow is an open-source, open-source, distributed-source application framework for the

# 2.1. `num_return_sequences` controls the number of outputs to return per input -- you can use it to see the multiple
# generated hypotheses. It can also be used with sampling.
generated = model.generate(**input_tokens, num_beams=2, num_return_sequences=2)
print("All generated hypotheses:", "\n".join(tokenizer.decode(out) for out in generated))
# > All generated hypotheses: TensorFlow is an open-source, open-source, distributed-source application framework for the
# > TensorFlow is an open-source, open-source, distributed-source application framework that allows
```

The basics of Sample and Beam Search are straightforward to control. However there are many options not covered in the
example above, and we encourage you to read the
[documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/main_classes/text_generation#transformers.generation_tf_utils.TFGenerationMixin.generate)
for advanced use cases.

> Sadly, as soon as you run `generate` with TensorFlow, you might realize that they take a while to execute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sadly, when you run `generate` with TensorFlow, you might notice that it takes a while to execute.
```

If your target application expects low latency or a large amount of input prompts, running text generation with
TensorFlow may look like an expensive endeavour 😬

> Fear not, for the remaining of this blog post aims to demonstrate that one line of code can make a drastic change for better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fear not, for the remainder of this blog post aims to demonstrate that one line of code can make a drastic improvement.
```

## TensorFlow and XLA

[XLA](https://www.tensorflow.org/xla), or Accelerated Linear Algebra, is a compiler originally developed to accelerate
TensorFlow models. Nowadays, it is also the compiler behind [JAX](https://github.com/google/jax), and it can even
be [used with PyTorch](https://huggingface.co/blog/pytorch-xla). Although the word "compiler" might sound dauting for
some, XLA is simple to use with TensorFlow -- it comes packaged inside the `tensorflow` library, and it can be
triggered with the `jit_compile` argument that exist in graph-creating functions.

For those of you familiar with TensorFlow 1, the concept of a TensorFlow graph comes naturally, as it was the only
mode of operation. First you defined your operations in a declarative fashion to create a graph, then you could pipe
inputs through the graph and observe the outputs. Fast, efficient, but painful to debug. With TensorFlow 2 came

> Eager Execution and the ability to code our models imperativelly -- the TensorFlow team explains the difference in more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eager Execution and the ability to code our models imperatively -- the TensorFlow team explains the difference in more
```

detail in [their blog post](https://blog.tensorflow.org/2019/01/what-are-symbolic-and-imperative-apis.html).

Hugging Face writes their TensorFlow models with Eager Execution in mind. Transparency is a core value, and being able
to inspect the model internals at any point is very benefitial to that end. However, that does mean that our models
do not benefit from the graph mode performance advantages out of the box, which implies that XLA is not

> directly accessible.

Author: (rewritten)

Fortunately, the TensorFlow team has users like us covered! If you're training your model, calling `model.compile()`
will convert your model to a TensorFlow graph ready for training. On the other hand, if you're doing model inference on
Hugging Face models, you might want to wrap your model with
[`tf.function`](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/function) to
convert it into a graph. `tf.function` can be used in any TensorFlow function, meaning you can use it on functions that

> go beyond model inference, creating a single optimized graph.

Reviewer: This is a little misleading, I think! `model.compile()` used to generate the model graph in TF 1.x, but now it does not. Graph compilation occurs when the first batch is passed to a `tf.function()` or to a Keras method like `model.fit()` or `model.predict()`, unless `run_eagerly` was set in `model.compile()`

Author: (rewritten)

model = TFAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("gpt2")
model.config.pad_token_id = model.config.eos_token_id
input_tokens = tokenizer(["TensorFlow is"], return_tensors="tf")

def most_likely_next_token(input_ids):
    model_output = model(input_ids)
    return tf.argmax(model_output.logits[:, -1, :], axis=-1)

# Now let's create an XLA function from the function above
xla_most_likely_next_token = tf.function(most_likely_next_token, jit_compile=True)

print("Calling regular function with TensorFlow code...")
most_likely_next_token(input_tokens)
print("Calling XLA function... (for the first time -- will be slow)")
xla_most_likely_next_token(input_tokens)
print("Calling XLA function... (for the second time -- will be fast)")
xla_most_likely_next_token(input_tokens)
```

## Text Generation using TensorFlow with XLA

As with any optimization procedure, there is no free lunch -- XLA is no exception. From the perspective of a text
generation user, there is only one technical detail that you need to keep in mind. Without digging too much into
[details](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/function#rules_of_tracing), XLA used in this fashion does just-in-time (JIT)

> compilation of a `tf.function`, which rely on polymorphism. In other words, every time you call a `tf.function` with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compilation of a `tf.function`, which relies on polymorphism. In other words, every time you call a `tf.function` with
```

# TFAutoModelForCausalLM, should be left-padded, as they continue generating from the input prompt.
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("gpt2", padding_side="left", pad_token="</s>")
model = TFAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("gpt2")
model.config.pad_token_id = model.config.eos_token_id
input_1 = ["TensorFlow is"]
input_2 = ["TensorFlow is a"]

# One line to r̶u̶l̶e̶ ̶t̶h̶e̶m̶ ̶a̶l̶l̶ create a XLA generation function
xla_generate = tf.function(model.generate, jit_compile=True)

# Let's see what happens when no padding is done
tokenized_input_1 = tokenizer(input_1, return_tensors="tf")  # length = 4
tokenized_input_2 = tokenizer(input_2, return_tensors="tf")  # length = 5
print(f"`tokenized_input_1` shape = {tokenized_input_1.input_ids.shape}")
print(f"`tokenized_input_2` shape = {tokenized_input_2.input_ids.shape}")
print("Calling XLA generation with tokenized_input_1 (will be slow as it is the first call)")
xla_generate(**tokenized_input_1)
print("Calling XLA generation with tokenized_input_2 (has a different length = will trigger tracing again)")
xla_generate(**tokenized_input_2)

# Oh no, that's terrible! Let's try the same, now with padding

> # `pad_to_multiple_of` should be used to achieve a balance between accepting any input length and limiting tracing.

Reviewer: Maybe not relevant, but the main use case for `pad_to_multiple_of` is to ensure that tensor cores can be used, as they often need sequence lengths (as well as hidden dimensions) that are multiples of 4 or 8. Using it to reduce XLA recompilations is just a nice bonus!

Author: Haha yeah, the docs only mention the tensor cores case. However, it was the arg that Patrick mentioned, when I asked what was suggested in FLAX to curb retracing -- I will open a PR to update this arg's doc

since the release of OpenAI's [GPT2 model](https://openai.com/blog/better-language-models/), models with text
generation capabilities have been in the spotlight. And for legitimate reasons -- these models can be used to
summarize, to translate, and even demonstrate zero-shot learning capabilities on language tasks.

The Hugging Face `transformers` library started off with NLP models, and text generation is of utmost importance to us.
It is part of our democratization efforts to ensure text generation is accessible, easily controllable, and efficient.
We have written a [blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/how-to-generate) about the different types of text
generation, and below there's a quick recap of the basic functionality -- feel free to skip it if you're familiar with
our `generate` function.

```python
# Requires transformers >= 4.21.0; Sample outputs may differ if run on a CPU.
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, TFAutoModelForCausalLM

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("gpt2")
model = TFAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("gpt2")
model.config.pad_token_id = model.config.eos_token_id
input_tokens = tokenizer(["TensorFlow is"], return_tensors="tf")

> # 1. Sample

Reviewer 2: Instead of a huge code block with comments, I would split this into several smaller blocks and have the comments be text explanations (the same but with real sentence :-) )

Author: Separated into several blocks, with better explanations in between :)

from transformers import AutoTokenizer, TFAutoModelForCausalLM

# Notice the new argument, `padding_side="left"` -- decoder-only models, which can
# be instantiated with TFAutoModelForCausalLM, should be left-padded, as they
# continue generating from the input prompt.
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("gpt2", padding_side="left", pad_token="</s>")
model = TFAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("gpt2")
model.config.pad_token_id = model.config.eos_token_id
input_1 = ["TensorFlow is"]
input_2 = ["TensorFlow is a"]

# One line to create a XLA generation function
xla_generate = tf.function(model.generate, jit_compile=True)

# Let's see what happens when no padding is done
tokenized_input_1 = tokenizer(input_1, return_tensors="tf")  # length = 4
tokenized_input_2 = tokenizer(input_2, return_tensors="tf")  # length = 5
print(f"`tokenized_input_1` shape = {tokenized_input_1.input_ids.shape}")
print(f"`tokenized_input_2` shape = {tokenized_input_2.input_ids.shape}")
print("Calling XLA generation with tokenized_input_1...")
print("(will be slow as it is the first call)")
xla_generate(**tokenized_input_1)
print("Calling XLA generation with tokenized_input_2...")

> print("(has a different length = will trigger tracing again)")

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above here + I would show the results in code blocks marked with ```python out

---

> title: 'Faster TensorFlow Text Generation with XLA'

Author: hah, I like it! It's not just "faster tensorflow generation", but actually "faster generation [in general]" 😎

thumbnail: /blog/assets/88_tf_xla_generate/thumbnail.png
---

<h1>
    Faster TensorFlow Text Generation with XLA
</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">

>     <small>Published July 25, 2022.</small>

Author: Scheduled it for the 27th -- there is already a blog post coming out on the 26th ("How to train Sentence Transformers"), and experience tells me that there is a non-negligible chance that the `transformers` release will be delayed a few hours (after its original planned time).

    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/tf_xla_generate.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/joaogante">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1641203017724-noauth.png?w=200&h=200&f=face">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>joaogante</code>
            <span class="fullname">João Gante</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

<em>TL;DR</em>: Text Generation on TensorFlow can now be massively accelerated with XLA, often being faster than
Pytorch, using a single line of additional code -- check the colab below!

<a target="_blank" href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/blog/blob/main/notebooks/88_tf_xla_generate.ipynb">

>     <img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"/>

Author: If you've installed `transformers==4.20` then all sorts of exceptions will pop up (for the notebook and some snippets in the blog post).

I've just run the notebook with `!pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.git` and it ran fine, so it should be ready for the release 👍 In any case, I will double-check all code parts after v4.21 gets released.

</a>

## Text Generation

As the quality of large language models increased, so did our expectations of what those models could do. Especially
since the release of OpenAI's [GPT-2](https://openai.com/blog/better-language-models/), models with text
generation capabilities have been in the spotlight. And for legitimate reasons -- these models can be used to
summarize, translate, and they even have demonstrated zero-shot learning capabilities on some language tasks.
This blog post will show how to take the most of this technology with TensorFlow.

The Hugging Face `transformers` library started with NLP models, so it is natural that text generation is of utmost
importance to us.
It is part of our democratization efforts to ensure it is accessible, easily controllable, and efficient.
We have written a [blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/how-to-generate) about the different types of text
generation. Nevertheless, below there's a quick recap of the core functionality -- feel free to skip it if you're

> familiar with our `generate` function and want to jump straight into TensorFlow's specificities.

Reviewer 3: Consider adding a link to jump to the section after the generate explanations

Let's start with the basics. Text generation can be deterministic or stochastic, depending on the
`do_sample` flag. By default it's set to `False`, causing the output to be deterministic, which is also known as
Greedy Decoding.

> When it's set to `True`, also known as Sample, we can still

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When it's set to `True`, also known as Sampling, we can still
```

IMO `"Sampling"` is a better fit here when also talking about `Greedy Decoding`

obtain reproducible results if we specify the `seed` argument (with the same format as in stateless TensorFlow random

> number generation, i.e., a tuple of two integers). As a rule of thumb, you want deterministic generation if you wish

Reviewer 4: maybe a link to `tf.random.seed(...)` here?

> to obtain factual information from the model and stochastic generation if you're aiming at more creative outputs.

Reviewer 4: hmm we use the word `stochastic generation` here for the first time I think - should we maybe just using `Sampling` or at least explain that `sampling == stochastic generation`?

```python
# Requires transformers >= 4.21.0; Sample outputs may differ if run on a CPU.
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, TFAutoModelForCausalLM

> tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("gpt2")

Author: Fair point. I've wanted to cover the two types of models (decoder-only and encoder-decoder) in the entire blog post, as they have minor differences. Decoder-only models are tricker, hence the focus throughout the blog post.

I'll add another cell to the colab, so that it covers decoder-only (gpt2) first, just like in the post itself, and encoder-decoder (t5) later.

model = TFAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("gpt2")
model.config.pad_token_id = model.config.eos_token_id

> input_tokens = tokenizer(["TensorFlow is"], return_tensors="tf")

Reviewer 4: nit, I'd call it `inputs` as it not only includes the tokens but also the `attention_mask`

generated = model.generate(**input_tokens, do_sample=True, seed=(42, 0))
print("Sample output: ", tokenizer.decode(generated[0]))
# > Sample output: TensorFlow is a great learning platform for learning about
# data structure and structure in data science..
```

Depending on the target application, longer outputs might be desirable. You can control the length of the generation

> output with `max_new_tokens`, keeping in mind that the execution time will scale linearly with this argument.

Reviewer 4: Hmm is this always true? It wouldn't be true in translation where the model has learnt to predict the EOS token well. Also I'm not 100% sure whether this really true (e.g. in PyTorch if you don't use a cache you will have max_length x max_length matrix multipliations which can cause long sequences to increase more than linearly. In XLA on the other hand going from 0 - 64 takes much more time than going from 64 - 128 depending on the device layout

Reviewer 4: would maybe just remove that sentence

```python
generated = model.generate(
    **input_tokens, do_sample=True, seed=(42, 0), max_new_tokens=5
)
print("Limiting to 5 new tokens:", tokenizer.decode(generated[0]))
# > Limiting to 5 new tokens: TensorFlow is a great learning platform for
generated = model.generate(
    **input_tokens, do_sample=True, seed=(42, 0), max_new_tokens=30
)

> print("Limiting to 30 new tokens:", tokenizer.decode(generated[0]))

Author: The argument is new on TF, it was merged yesterday (23th July) :D I was running these examples from the branch, it will work on master now

# > Limiting to 30 new tokens: TensorFlow is a great learning platform for
# learning about data structure and structure in data science................
```

> Stochastic generation has a few knobs you can play with to control randomness. `temperature` sets the overall entropy

Reviewer 4: Would also using `Sampling` here instead

Reviewer 4: instead of stochastic generation

> of your output -- values below `1.0` will prioritize sampling tokens with a higher likelihood, whereas values above `1.0`

Reviewer 4: Hmm I'd write something along the lines "will make sampling tokens with a higher likelihood even more likely while tokens with less likelihood even less likey, *i.e.* it makes the distribution more peaky. (then after do the opposite, I'd add). In the limit temperature -> 0.0 sampling is identical to greedy search and for temperature -> \inf it becomes a uniform distribution

Reviewer 4: Ah sorry you wrote exactly that after :sweat_smile:

do the opposite. Setting it to `0.0` reduces the behavior to Greedy Decoding, whereas very large values approximate
uniform sampling. In addition to controlling the entropy, you can also limit the possible output space for each

> subsequent token. For instance, `top_p` constrains sampling to the most likely tokens that cumulatively account for

Reviewer 4: IMO for top_p and top_k you can also just refer to the generate blog post

at least `top_p` of the total probability. In other words, it will ensure that very unlikely tokens are never sampled,
which will likely improve the quality of the generation.

```python
generated = model.generate(
    **input_tokens, do_sample=True, seed=(42, 0), temperature=0.7
)
print("Temperature 0.7: ", tokenizer.decode(generated[0]))
# > Temperature 0.7: TensorFlow is a great way to do things like this........
generated = model.generate(
    **input_tokens, do_sample=True, seed=(42, 0), temperature=1.5
)
print("Temperature 1.5: ", tokenizer.decode(generated[0]))
# > Temperature 1.5: TensorFlow is being developed for both Cython and Bamboo.
# On Bamboo...

generated = model.generate(**input_tokens, do_sample=True, seed=(42, 0), top_p=0.9)
print("Top p 0.9: ", tokenizer.decode(generated[0]))
# > Top p 0.9: TensorFlow is a great learning platform for learning about data
# structure and structure in data science. It
```

> Contrarily to Sample, Greedy Decoding will always pick the most likely token at each iteration of generation.

Reviewer 4: Again "stochastic generation" and "sample" is used a bit interchangeably before telling the reader. I'd maybe just settle on "Sampling"

However, it often results in sub-optimal outputs. You can increase the quality of the results through the `num_beams`
argument. When it is larger than `1`, it triggers Beam Search, which continuously explores high-probability sequences.
This exploration comes at the cost of additional resources and computational time.

```python
generated = model.generate(**input_tokens, num_beams=2)
print("Beam Search output:", tokenizer.decode(generated[0]))
# > Beam Search output: TensorFlow is an open-source, open-source,
# distributed-source application framework for the
```

Finally, when running Sample or Beam Search, you can use `num_return_sequences` to return several sequences. For
Sample it is equivalent to running generate multiple times from the same input prompt, while for Beam Search it

> returns the highest scoring generated beams.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
returns the highest scoring generated beams in descending order.
```

```python
generated = model.generate(**input_tokens, num_beams=2, num_return_sequences=2)
print(
    "All generated hypotheses:",
    "\n".join(tokenizer.decode(out) for out in generated)
)
# > All generated hypotheses: TensorFlow is an open-source, open-source,
# distributed-source application framework for the
# > TensorFlow is an open-source, open-source, distributed-source application
# framework that allows
```

> The basics of text generation, as you can see, straightforward to control. However, there are many options

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The basics of text generation, as you can see, are straightforward to control. However, there are many options
```

> not covered in the examples above, and we encourage you to read the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
not covered in the examples above, and it's encouraged to read the
```

[documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/main_classes/text_generation#transformers.generation_tf_utils.TFGenerationMixin.generate)
for advanced use cases.
Sadly, when you run `generate` with TensorFlow, you might notice that it takes a while to execute.
If your target application expects low latency or a large amount of input prompts, running text generation with
TensorFlow looks like an expensive endeavour. 😬

Fear not, for the remainder of this blog post aims to demonstrate that one line of code can make a drastic improvement.
If you'd rather jump straight into action,

> [our colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/blog/blob/main/notebooks/88_tf_xla_generate.ipynb)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[the colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/blog/blob/main/notebooks/88_tf_xla_generate.ipynb)
```

has an interactive example you can fiddle with!

## TensorFlow and XLA

[XLA](https://www.tensorflow.org/xla), or Accelerated Linear Algebra, is a compiler originally developed to accelerate
TensorFlow models. Nowadays, it is also the compiler behind [JAX](https://github.com/google/jax), and it can even

> be [used with PyTorch](https://huggingface.co/blog/pytorch-xla). Although the word "compiler" might sound dauting for

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
be [used with PyTorch](https://huggingface.co/blog/pytorch-xla). Although the word "compiler" might sound daunting for
```

some, XLA is simple to use with TensorFlow -- it comes packaged inside the `tensorflow` library, and it can be
triggered with the `jit_compile` argument in any graph-creating function.

> For those of you familiar with TensorFlow 1, the concept of a TensorFlow graph comes naturally, as it was the only

Reviewer 3: (:laughing: up to you!)

```suggestion
For those of you familiar with TensorFlow 1 🧓, the concept of a TensorFlow graph comes naturally, as it was the only
```

Author: 😂 👍

> mode of operation. First you defined your operations in a declarative fashion to create a graph, then you could pipe
> inputs through the graph and observe the outputs. Fast, efficient, but painful to debug. With TensorFlow 2 came
> Eager Execution and the ability to code our models imperatively -- the TensorFlow team explains the difference in more
> detail in [their blog post](https://blog.tensorflow.org/2019/01/what-are-symbolic-and-imperative-apis.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mode of operation. First, you defined the operations in a declarative fashion to create a graph. Afterwards, you could pipe
inputs through the graph and observe the outputs. Fast, efficient, but painful to debug. With TensorFlow 2 came
Eager Execution and the ability to code the models imperatively -- the TensorFlow team explains the difference in more
detail in [their blog post](https://blog.tensorflow.org/2019/01/what-are-symbolic-and-imperative-apis.html).
```

Hugging Face writes their TensorFlow models with Eager Execution in mind. Transparency is a core value, and being able
to inspect the model internals at any point is very benefitial to that end. However, that does mean that some uses of

> our models do not benefit from the graph mode performance advantages out of the box (e.g. when calling `model(args)`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the models do not benefit from the graph mode performance advantages out of the box (e.g. when calling `model(args)`).
```

> Fortunately, the TensorFlow team has users like us covered! Wrapping a function containing TensorFlow code with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Fortunately, the TensorFlow team has users like us covered 🥳! Wrapping a function containing TensorFlow code with
```

[`tf.function`](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/function) will attempt to convert it into a graph when
you call the wrapped function. If you're training a model, calling `model.compile()` (without `run_eagerly=True`) does
precisely that wrapping, so that you benefit from graph mode when you call `model.fit()`. Since `tf.function` can be
used in any function containing TensorFlow code, it means you can use it on functions that go beyond model inference,
creating a single optimized graph.

> Now that we know how to create TensorFlow graphs, compiling them with XLA is straightforward -- simply add `jit_compile=True`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that you know how to create TensorFlow graphs, compiling them with XLA is straightforward -- simply add `jit_compile=True`
```

as an argument to the functions mentioned above (`tf.function` and `tf.keras.Model.compile`). Assuming everything went well
(more on that below) and that you are using a GPU or a TPU, you will notice that the first call will take a while, but
that the remaining ones are much, much faster. Here's a simple example of a function that performs model inference and some post-processing of its outputs:

```python
import tensorflow as tf
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, TFAutoModelForCausalLM

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("gpt2")

> model = TFAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("gpt2")

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
model = TFAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("gpt2", pad_token_id=50256)
```

I'd do this instead of the following line. I think we don't want people to change the config on the fly really

model.config.pad_token_id = model.config.eos_token_id
input_tokens = tokenizer(["TensorFlow is"], return_tensors="tf")

def most_likely_next_token(input_ids):
    model_output = model(input_ids)
    return tf.argmax(model_output.logits[:, -1, :], axis=-1)

print("Calling regular function with TensorFlow code...")
most_likely_next_token(input_tokens)
```

In one line, we can create an XLA-accelerated function from the function above.

```python
xla_most_likely_next_token = tf.function(most_likely_next_token, jit_compile=True)

print("Calling XLA function... (for the first time -- will be slow)")
xla_most_likely_next_token(input_tokens)
print("Calling XLA function... (for the second time -- will be fast)")
xla_most_likely_next_token(input_tokens)

> ```

Reviewer 3: Some times here would be useful (even if the code for checking the time is not there)

## Text Generation using TensorFlow with XLA

As with any optimization procedure, there is no free lunch -- XLA is no exception. From the perspective of a text
generation user, there is only one technical aspect that you need to keep in mind. Without digging too much into
[details](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/function#rules_of_tracing), XLA used in this fashion does just-in-time (JIT)
compilation of a `tf.function`, which relies on polymorphism. In other words, every time you call a `tf.function` with

> different inputs, with the exception of native TensorFlow types (such as `tf.Tensor` or `tf.Variable`) with the same

Reviewer 4: This is not precise enough in my opinion. I think we should be crystal clear here that the same tensor with different data does **not** trigger recompilation, but that a different shape does trigger a recompilation. 

Maybe something along the lines "When you compile a function, XLA remembers the shape of every tensor and the data of every non-tensor function input and compiles the function for a given tensor shape and given not-tensor inputs to a binary. Every time the function is called with the same tensor shape (with different tensor data) and the same non-tensor arguments, the compiled function can be reused. Otherwise, new costly compilation step will take place"  

<- It's maybe a bit too long, but I think it's important that the user understands exactly what causes recompilations and what not

Author: Agreed, now being extremely clear here will lead to new open issues in transformers. Rewritten with your suggestions 👍

data type and shape, it will go through a slow compilation step also known as tracing. In practice, for text generation,
it simply means the input should be padded to a multiple of a certain length (so it has a limited number of possible
shapes), and that using different options will be slow for the first time you use them. Let's see what happens when we
naively call generation with XLA.

```python

> # Note: execution times will be very different for different GPUs, and will

Reviewer 3: The colab does not have any comments, these would be nice over there too!

model = TFAutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("gpt2")
model.config.pad_token_id = model.config.eos_token_id
input_1 = ["TensorFlow is"]
input_2 = ["TensorFlow is a"]

# One line to create a XLA generation function
xla_generate = tf.function(model.generate, jit_compile=True)

# Calls XLA generation without padding
tokenized_input_1 = tokenizer(input_1, return_tensors="tf")  # length = 4
tokenized_input_2 = tokenizer(input_2, return_tensors="tf")  # length = 5
print(f"`tokenized_input_1` shape = {tokenized_input_1.input_ids.shape}")
print(f"`tokenized_input_2` shape = {tokenized_input_2.input_ids.shape}")

print("Calling XLA generation with tokenized_input_1...")
print("(will be slow as it is the first call)")
start = time.time_ns()
xla_generate(**tokenized_input_1)
end = time.time_ns()
print(f"Execution time -- {(end - start) / 1e6:.1f} ms\n")
# > Execution time -- 9565.1 ms

print("Calling XLA generation with tokenized_input_2...")
print("(has a different length = will trigger tracing again)")
start = time.time_ns()
xla_generate(**tokenized_input_2)
end = time.time_ns()
print(f"Execution time -- {(end - start) / 1e6:.1f} ms\n")
# > Execution time -- 6815.0 ms
```

> Oh no, that's terribly slow! A solution to keep the different combinations of shapes in check is through padding,

Reviewer 4: Nice!

> as mentioned above. Our tokenizer classes have a `pad_to_multiple_of` argument that can be used to achieve a balance

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
as mentioned above. The tokenizer classes have a `pad_to_multiple_of` argument that can be used to achieve a balance
```

between accepting any input length and limiting tracing.

```python
padding_kwargs = {"pad_to_multiple_of": 8, "padding": True}
tokenized_input_1_with_padding = tokenizer(
    input_1, return_tensors="tf", **padding_kwargs
)  # length = 8
tokenized_input_2_with_padding = tokenizer(
    input_2, return_tensors="tf", **padding_kwargs
)  # length = 8
print(
    "`tokenized_input_1_with_padding` shape = ",
    f"{tokenized_input_1_with_padding.input_ids.shape}"
)
print(
    "`tokenized_input_2_with_padding` shape = ",
    f"{tokenized_input_2_with_padding.input_ids.shape}"
)

print("Calling XLA generation with tokenized_input_1_with_padding...")
print("(slow, first time running with this length)")
start = time.time_ns()
xla_generate(**tokenized_input_1_with_padding)
end = time.time_ns()
print(f"Execution time -- {(end - start) / 1e6:.1f} ms\n")
# > Execution time -- 6815.4 ms

print("Calling XLA generation with tokenized_input_2_with_padding...")
print("(will be fast!)")
start = time.time_ns()
xla_generate(**tokenized_input_2_with_padding)
end = time.time_ns()
print(f"Execution time -- {(end - start) / 1e6:.1f} ms\n")

> # > Execution time -- 19.3 ms

Reviewer 3: Amazing! :fire:

```

That's much better, successive generation calls performed this way will be orders of magnitude faster than before.
Keep in mind that trying new generation options, at any point, will trigger tracing.

```python
print("Calling XLA generation with the same input, but with new options...")
print("(slow again)")
start = time.time_ns()
xla_generate(**tokenized_input_1_with_padding, num_beams=2)
end = time.time_ns()
print(f"Execution time -- {(end - start) / 1e6:.1f} ms\n")

> # > Execution time -- 9644.2 ms

Reviewer 3: This code fails to me (see third section in https://colab.research.google.com/drive/107zDlbkn7CUE6un5vhpkaFYCPn7L4gg2#scrollTo=v0uTI3fEFZPI)

```
ValueError: in user code:

    File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/transformers/generation_tf_utils.py", line 590, in generate  *
        seed=model_kwargs.pop("seed", None),
    File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/transformers/generation_tf_utils.py", line 1641, in _generate  *
        input_ids,
    File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/dist-packages/transformers/generation_tf_utils.py", line 2530, in unflatten_beam_dim  *
        tensor, tensor.shape[:batch_axis] + [batch_size, num_beams] + tensor.shape[batch_axis + 1 :]

    ValueError: Tried to convert 'shape' to a tensor and failed. Error: Cannot convert a partially known TensorShape <unknown> to a Tensor.
```

Author: (same as above, due to old version :) )

```

From a developer perspective, relying on XLA implies being aware of a few additional nuances. XLA shines when the size
of the data structures are known in advance, such as in model training. On the other hand, when their dimensions are
impossible to determine or certain dynamic slices are used, XLA fails to compile. Modern implementations of text
generation are auto-regressive, whose natural behavior is to expand tensors and to abruptly interrupt some operations
as it goes -- in other words, not XLA-friendly by default.

> We have rewritten our entire TensorFlow text generation codebase to vectorize operations and use fixed-sized

Reviewer 4: Maybe link to your PR here?

structures with padding. Our NLP models were also modified to correctly use their positional embeddings in the
presence of padded structures. The result should be invisible to TensorFlow text generation users, except for the
availability of XLA compilation.

## Benchmarks and Conclusions

We have seen above that we can convert TensorFlow functions into a graph and accelerate them with XLA compilation.
Current forms of text generation are simply an auto-regressive function that alternate between a model forward pass
and some post-processing, producing one token per iteration. Through XLA compilation, the entire process gets

> optimized, resulting in faster execution. But how much faster? The Gradio demo below contains some benchmarks

Reviewer 3: Maybe add a link to the demo

> We have seen above that we can convert TensorFlow functions into a graph and accelerate them with XLA compilation.
> Current forms of text generation are simply an auto-regressive function that alternate between a model forward pass
> and some post-processing, producing one token per iteration. Through XLA compilation, the entire process gets
> optimized, resulting in faster execution. But how much faster? The Gradio demo below contains some benchmarks
> comparing Hugging Face's text generation on multiple GPU models for the two main ML frameworks, TensorFlow and PyTorch.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Above you saw that you can convert TensorFlow functions into a graph and accelerate them with XLA compilation.
Current forms of text generation are simply an auto-regressive function that alternates between a model forward pass
and some post-processing, producing one token per iteration. Through XLA compilation, the entire process gets
optimized, resulting in faster execution. But how much faster? The Gradio demo below contains some benchmarks
comparing Hugging Face's text generation on multiple GPU models for the two main ML frameworks, TensorFlow and PyTorch.
```

<div class="hidden xl:block">
<div style="display: flex; flex-direction: column; align-items: center;">
<iframe src="https://hf.space/embed/joaogante/tf_xla_generate_benchmarks/+" frameBorder="0" width="1200px" height="760px" title="Gradio app" allow="accelerometer; ambient-light-sensor; autoplay; battery; camera; document-domain; encrypted-media; fullscreen; geolocation; gyroscope; layout-animations; legacy-image-formats; magnetometer; microphone; midi; oversized-images; payment; picture-in-picture; publickey-credentials-get; sync-xhr; usb; vr ; wake-lock; xr-spatial-tracking" sandbox="allow-forms allow-modals allow-popups allow-popups-to-escape-sandbox allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-downloads"></iframe>
</div>
</div>

If you explore the results, two conclusions become quickly visible:

1. As this blog post has been building up to here, TensorFlow text generation is much faster when XLA is used. We are

> talking about speedups larger than 100x in some cases, which trully demonstrate the power of a compiled graph 🚀

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
talking about speedups larger than 100x in some cases, which truly demonstrates the power of a compiled graph 🚀
```

2. TensorFlow text generation with XLA is the fastest option in the vast majority of cases, in some of them by as

> much as 9x faster, debunking the myth that Pytorch is the go-to framework for serious NLP tasks 💪

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
much as 9x faster, debunking the myth that PyTorch is the go-to framework for serious NLP tasks 💪
```

> Give [our colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/blog/blob/main/notebooks/88_tf_xla_generate.ipynb)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Give [our colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/huggingface/blog/blob/mainnotebooks/88_tf_xla_generate.ipynb)
```
